all right nice way to start off the day
oh yeah that's a beauty there nice work
that is a good
we're on the Missouri River near
Bismarck for them midsummer and a lot of
people realize what a great fishery this
is in the spring that's no secret but
what more and more people are starting
to realize just how good this fishery
can be through the duration of the some
nice fish Bryant nice fish boy you can't
even see that that jig isn't that a
beauty Wow and with me today is a
gentleman that does a lot of fishing on
your brine Fedak it's a very good guide
on this River Knowles's River really
well he's going to share a lot of tips
today they help you catch more fish on
the Missouri River come midsummer Jason
Mitchell Elite Series rods brings you
the daily log entry
the locations that you're finding
walleyes that come midsummer
can be drastically different than where
you guys are finding in the spring once
you touch on that brine as far as how
your strategy changes okay yeah you know
in the spring we catch a lot of the fish
shallower up on sandbars and whatnot as
the summer goes on you know the water
warms up a little bit we find these fish
and little deeper holes related mm-hmm
you know a lot of rocks trees swirly
holes is what we call them you know
right off the main channel and a little
rock Eddy or something that slows the
current down just yeah so deeper breaks
deeper holes a lot wow that has wood on
it or rock around it versus in the
spring you're typically targeting a lot
shallower brakeless range this time of
year and throughout the summer we'll get
them in that 10 to 15-foot stuff you
know occasionally deeper mm-hmm
let's catch another fish sounds good all
right
there's a good fish
yeah thank you there we go thank you
hair that's a beauty there that is a
beauty
Wow through the jig in the net but all
right isn't that a beauty that is what
it's all about that's fun too I mean
when he's when these fish like this bump
these jigs that is good stuff and
obviously the strategy brine is pretty
typical of rivers but it's even more so
in the sense that you guys have milk
runs of spots and you guys hit those
spots and sometimes you go two or three
spots out hitting nothing else and boom
you hit them but you got to keep moving
don't you that's exactly yeah this time
of year you won't miss more spots the
better you know we'll fish sometimes at
the 15-20 spots a day you know you just
jump around till you find a spot that
has some in they'll be there one day and
then the next day they're gone
kind of jumper on to you find out where
they're at I guess yeah let's get this
fish back in the water sounds good you
know that's the whole key to is it you
might only catch a fish or two out of a
spot in you know compared to like it may
be a lake situation right now where you
can fight a spot where there might be
several fish and it's a big spot these
are small spots and you really got to
keep hopping around there you go
get the net here buddy
that's a good fish their beauty and you
know the story the past few years has
been high water and last year you had a
lot of water that's change this fishery
has really changed some of the more
situational why don't you touch on that
Brian well with with the releases they
had through the system last year the
word is a lot of the smelt forage got
flushed through the dam okay you know
which is known as our main forage for
the walleyes in this system anyways
we're hoping some shad replace what
we've lost for the smelt and young of
the year white bass you know there's a
lot of perch in a wahi system that a lot
of the walleyes feed on so hopefully
they can fill that gap of all the smelt
that we've lost now let's get this fish
back in the water
in here I'll give you a hand all right
nice work Brian thank you you're a fine
guide hook out of this fish here but you
know I tell you what this is a
opportunity that more and more anglers
are discovering and that is fishing a
lot of these major river systems come
midsummer long after the crowds go home
and you can tell today you know it's
windy and that's a thing of up and down
the river when it's windy that's when
you see the bow Rams busy because that's
uncomfortably on the lake you can always
find a place to fish down here and you
can always catch fish in great resource
well beyond the spring migration so to
speak